# python-challenge
This challenge includes creating python script for two projects:
1)PyBank project - a Python script  is created to analyze the financial records of  a company using budget_data.csv file.
2)PyPoll project - a Python script  is created to analyze the election dataset and display the results  of election by using election_data.csv file.

## Data Source
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC. 
For Pybank project budget_data.csv file was provided. 
For Pypoll project election_data.csv  file was provided.

## Features
PyBank project:
A Python script is created to analyzes the records to calculate each of the following values:
•    The total number of months included in the dataset
•    The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
•    The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
•    The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
•    The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
•    script can both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.

PyPoll  project:
The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate”. A Python script is created that analyzes the votes and calculates each of the following values:
•    The total number of votes cast
•    A complete list of candidates who received votes
•    The percentage of votes each candidate won
•    The total number of votes each candidate won
•    The winner of the election based on popular vote
•    script can both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.


### Prerequisites
Tools needed to have installed before project:
•    Python 
•    Jupyter Notebook
•    GitHub
•    Local git repository python-challenge was created , cloned and changes were pushed to main branch.

## Analysis
•    The datasets for these projects were quite large. Doing analysis on them via Excel was a limitation. But creating scripts in Python for the above two projects made it easier to handle this big data. 
•    PyBank project script showed financial analysis results of financial dataset of a company, showing changes in profit/loss, highest increase in profit and lowest decrease in profit over a period of time. 
•     PyPoll project script showed election results of election data. It showed the total number of votes cast, all candidates with their votes count and winner.
